.\" $Header: /cvs/xorg/xc/programs/fc-list/fc-list.man,v 1.1 2005/06/28 01:01:15 alanc Exp $
.\"
.\"	transcript compatibility for postscript use.
.\"
.\"	synopsis:  .P! <file.ps>
.\"
.de P!
.fl
\!!1 setgray
.fl
\\&.\"
.fl
\!!0 setgray
.fl			\" force out current output buffer
\!!save /psv exch def currentpoint translate 0 0 moveto
\!!/showpage{}def
.fl			\" prolog
.sy sed -e 's/^/!/' \\$1\" bring in postscript file
\!!psv restore
.
.de pF
.ie     \\*(f1 .ds f1 \\n(.f
.el .ie \\*(f2 .ds f2 \\n(.f
.el .ie \\*(f3 .ds f3 \\n(.f
.el .ie \\*(f4 .ds f4 \\n(.f
.el .tm ? font overflow
.ft \\$1
..
.de fP
.ie     !\\*(f4 \{\
.	ft \\*(f4
.	ds f4\"
'	br \}
.el .ie !\\*(f3 \{\
.	ft \\*(f3
.	ds f3\"
'	br \}
.el .ie !\\*(f2 \{\
.	ft \\*(f2
.	ds f2\"
'	br \}
.el .ie !\\*(f1 \{\
.	ft \\*(f1
.	ds f1\"
'	br \}
.el .tm ? font underflow
..
.ds f1\"
.ds f2\"
.ds f3\"
.ds f4\"
'\" t 
.ta 8n 16n 24n 32n 40n 48n 56n 64n 72n  
.TH "fc-list" "1" 
.SH "NAME" 
fc-list \(em list available fonts 
.SH "SYNOPSIS" 
.PP 
\fBfc-list\fR [\fB-vV?\fP]  [\fB--verbose\fP]  [\fB--version\fP]  [\fB--help\fP]  [\fB\fIpattern\fR\fP]  [\fB\fIelement\fR\fP]  
.SH "DESCRIPTION" 
.PP 
\fBfc-list\fR lists fonts and styles 
available on the system for applications using fontconfig. 
.SH "OPTIONS" 
.PP 
This program follows the usual GNU command line syntax, 
with long options starting with two dashes (`-').  A summary of 
options is included below. 
.IP "\fB-v\fP           \fB--verbose\fP         " 10 
Display status information while busy. 
.IP "\fB-?\fP           \fB--help\fP         " 10 
Show summary of options. 
.IP "\fB-V\fP           \fB--version\fP         " 10 
Show version of the program and exit. 
.IP "\fB\fIpattern\fR\fP         " 10 
If this argument is set, only fonts matching 
\fIpattern\fR are displayed. 
.IP "\fB\fIelement\fR\fP         " 10 
If set, the \fIelement\fR property 
is displayed for matching fonts. 
.SH "EXAMPLES" 
.IP "fc-list" 10 
Lists all font faces. 
.IP "fc-list :lang=hi" 10 
Lists font faces that cover Hindi. 
.IP "fc-list : family style file spacing " 10 
Lists the filename and spacing value for each font 
face.  ``\fI:\fP'' is an empty pattern that matches all 
fonts. 
.SH "SEE ALSO" 
.PP 
\fBfc-cache\fR (1). 
.PP 
The fontconfig user's guide, in HTML format: 
\fB/usr/share/doc/fontconfig/fontconfig-user.html\fP. 
.SH "AUTHOR" 
.PP 
This manual page was written by Keith Packard 
keithp@keithp.com and Josselin Mouette joss@debian.org. 
.\" created by instant / docbook-to-man, Mon 27 Jun 2005, 17:03 
